---
title: Creating Chat Using Pocketbase and Svelte
date: '2024-03-20'
---

General Step Guide for How I created simple chat using pocketbase. (Note this guide is just general documentation on the steps and isn't an indepth guide with code. If you are making a chat application using pocketbase I would recommend consulting the documentation since it provides clear code for how to make api calls to the database)

## Backend Setup

The first step involves deploying the Pocketbase backend using Pockethost, a free hosting service provided by Pocketbase. Once deployed, we configure the backend to include collections for users and messages. To maintain anonymity within the chat, we utilize a single user for all message creation API calls.

## Frontend Development

For the frontend, we use Svelte and Sveltekit. Here's an overview of the main components:

### Main Landing Page (+page.svelte)

This page is responsible for fetching message records and displaying them to users. It serves as the entry point for the chat application.

### Messages Component (message.svelte)

The messages component handles interactions with the Pocketbase instance and event dispatching. We make use of the simple message creation API provided by Pocketbase, following the documentation's guidelines. Additionally, the component includes input fields for text and file uploads, with their values passed to the message creation function.

---

By following these steps, I ended up with a simple and easy to extend live online chat.